Hacking


This file should inculde some information that is only relevant to 
those who want to develop Padre. We assume that they will all work in
a workspace checked out from the SVN repository.

Extra files
------------

Some extra files we have in the SVN repository that don't get distributed:


dev.pl      is just a wrapper script to launch script/padre the main executable of 
            setting some environment variables.

release.pl  Used to release  Padre.


Translation files
-----------------

Currently we are using gettext so we have a po file for each additional
language (currently only German) in the share/locale/ directory.

Before release the release.pl script generates an mo file using

  msgfmt -o share/locale/de.mo share/locale/de.po



Version control
----------------
You probably already know that we use Subversion and it is located
at http://svn.perlide.org/


Bug tracking and Feature requests
----------------------------------
We are using Trac for this. The main web site of Padre is actually its
trac http://padre.perlide.org/


Patching
--------

Check out the trunk, http://svn.perlide.org/padre/trunk/
and use svn diff to create your patch while your current
working directory is  the trunk directory.

Please send patches either to the padre-dev mailing list or
add them to trac to the appropriate ticket.

Branching
------------

Usuall we use the trunk for all the development work so 
we can see issues and fix them quickly. At least some of use
already use Padre for the development work running it from the
workspace so if someone breaks trunk that will immediately
effect some of the developers. So please don't do it.

If you think your change is relatively large and you feel more
comfortable working on a branch, do it.


Changes
---------

We try to work with small changes. There are no exact rules
what is small and what is already too big but we try not to mix
unrelated issues in one change. If you need a styling change or
white space change, do it it in a separate commit.

Commit messages are important. If a commit relates to a ticket
please try to remember adding the ticket number with a # sign ( #23 ).
The GUI of Trac will turn it into a linke to the relevant ticket
making it easier to find related information.

Tickets - issues - bugs
------------------------

We are using Trac as the issue and bug tracker.
When adding a note that relates to one of the commit in SVN please
use the r780 format. That allows Trak to create links to the diff
of that revision.


Code review
-------------

We don't have formal code-review but in response to the commit messages
we sometimes reply with comments to the padre-dev mailing list.
You are also encourgaed to do so!

